# Static Snap

**Static Snap** is a powerful WordPress plugin that transforms your dynamic WordPress site into a static website, enabling seamless integration and deployment across various hosting services.

## Advantages of Using Static Snap

1. :shield: **Enhanced Security**: By converting dynamic WordPress sites to static formats, Static Snap minimizes security risks associated with dynamic content and databases, significantly reducing susceptibility to hacking and malware attacks.

2. :zap: **Increased Speed and Performance**: Static sites generated by Static Snap load faster than dynamic sites since they are served directly from a CDN, eliminating server-side processing. This results in quicker access times, enhancing user experience and engagement.

3. :dollar: **Reduced Hosting Costs**: Static Snap allows the use of less resource-intensive hosting solutions, which can be cheaper or even free, significantly lowering overall website maintenance costs.

4. :wrench: **Simplified Maintenance**: Users can manage their site content via WordPress while Static Snap serves a static version, blending ease of management with enhanced stability and reliability.

5. :chart_with_upwards_trend: **SEO Benefits**: With faster load times and increased reliability, static sites often rank better in search engine results. Static Snap maintains WordPress's SEO capabilities while improving site performance.

6. :arrow_up: **Scalability and Reliability**: Static Snap ensures that static sites are more scalable and reliable under high traffic conditions, maintaining uptime and performance during peak times.

7. :mag: **Preserved Functionality**: Essential dynamic features, such as search and form capabilities, are retained in the static version of the site, ensuring no functional compromise with Static Snap.

8. :repeat: **Automated Backups to GitHub**: Static Snap automatically pushes the static site to a connected GitHub account, providing robust version control and secure backups. This facilitates easy tracking of changes and reverting to previous versions.

9. :deciduous_tree: **Eco-friendly Hosting**: By reducing server resource needs, Static Snap supports more sustainable hosting, aligning with eco-friendly practices.

10. :clipboard: **Content Management Efficiency**: Users benefit from the familiar WordPress interface for content management while enjoying the performance advantages of a static site.

## Table of Contents

- [Installation](#installation)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

## Installation

Here's a [guide on how to Getting Started with Static Snap](https://docs.staticsnap.com/en/getting-started/).

## Contributing

Contributions to the Static Snap plugin are welcome!

### Prerequisites

At Static Snap, we make use of a specific toolset to develop our code. Please ensure you have the following tools installed before contributing:

- [Composer](https://getcomposer.org/)
- [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/)

### Getting Started

After installing the tools mentioned above, you can use the following steps to acquire a development version of Static Snap.

Within your WordPress installation, navigate to `wp-content/plugins` and run the following commands:

````bash
git clone https://github.com/static-snap/static-snap.git
cd static-snap
```

To install all the necessary dependencies, run the following commands:
```bash
composer install
yarn
yarn start
````

## License

Static Snap is licensed under the GPL v3 License. See the LICENSE file for more details.
